README.md, before:

# TiddlyWiki Collaborative Blog Plugin

A WordPress-style collaborative blog plugin for TiddlyWiki, designed to create a clean, professional website with a non-wiki feel. Perfect for historical societies, nonprofits, and small organizations.

## Features

- **Clean, blog-style interface** - Hides typical wiki elements (edit buttons, sidebar) for a professional look
- **Multiple authors** - Built-in support for author attribution on posts
- **Left sidebar navigation** - Fixed navigation menu with customizable links
- **Featured posts** - Highlight important content on the homepage
- **Categories/tags** - Organize content by topic
- **Post archive** - Automatic table of contents for all posts
- **Static pages** - Create About, Contact, and other non-blog pages
- **Responsive design** - Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Discrete admin panel** - Hidden "Admin" link reveals editing controls
- **Historical society aesthetic** - Professional, trustworthy design with serif fonts

## Installation

### Method 1: Drag and Drop (Recommended)

**The easiest way to install:**

1. Open your TiddlyWiki file in your browser (e.g., `empty.html`)
2. Download `collaborative-blog-plugin.json` from this repository
3. Drag and drop the JSON file onto your TiddlyWiki
4. Click the "Import" button to import all tiddlers
5. Save your wiki (use the Admin panel button after installation)
6. Refresh the page to see your new blog!

### Method 2: Import Individual Tiddlers

1. Open your TiddlyWiki file (e.g., `empty.html`)
2. Drag and drop all `.tid` files from the `plugins/collaborative-blog/tiddlers/` directory onto your wiki
3. Save your wiki
4. Refresh the page

### Method 3: Use Node.js (Advanced)

If you're running TiddlyWiki on Node.js:

1. Copy the `plugins/collaborative-blog/` directory to your wiki's `plugins/` folder
2. Add the plugin to your `tiddlywiki.info` file:
   ```json
   {
     "plugins": [
       "collaborative-blog"
     ]
   }
   ```
3. Restart your TiddlyWiki server

## Usage

### Creating Blog Posts

1. Click the **Admin** link in the left sidebar
2. Click **New Post** in the admin panel
3. Add the following fields to your tiddler:
   - **Title**: Your post title
   - **Tags**: `Post` (required), plus any category tags (e.g., `News`, `Events`, `History`)
   - **Author**: Author name (e.g., `Sarah Johnson`)
   - **Date**: Date in YYYYMMDD format (e.g., `20251108`)
   - **Excerpt**: Brief summary (optional but recommended)
4. Write your content using TiddlyWiki markup
5. Save the tiddler

### Creating Featured Posts

To feature a post on the homepage:

1. Edit the post
2. Add `Featured` to the tags field (e.g., `Post Featured News`)
3. Save the tiddler

**Note**: Only the most recent featured post will display in the featured section.

### Creating Static Pages

1. Click **New Page** in the admin panel
2. Add the following fields:
   - **Title**: Page name (e.g., `About`, `Contact`)
   - **Tags**: `Page` (required)
3. Write your content
4. Save the tiddler
5. The page will automatically appear in the navigation (edit `navigation.tid` to customize menu links)

### Managing Draft Posts

To save a post as a draft (not visible on the site):

1. Create or edit a post
2. Add `Draft` to the tags field
3. Save the tiddler

### Customizing the Site

#### Change Site Title and Subtitle

Edit these tiddlers:
- `$:/SiteTitle` - Main site title
- `$:/SiteSubtitle` - Tagline/subtitle

#### Customize Navigation Menu

Edit `$:/plugins/collaborative-blog/Navigation` to change menu links.

#### Modify Color Scheme

Edit `$:/plugins/collaborative-blog/styles` to customize colors, fonts, and layout.

#### Change Homepage Layout

Edit the `Home` tiddler to modify which posts appear and how they're displayed.

## Content Organization

### Tags

The plugin uses tags to organize content:

- **Post** - Marks content as a blog post
- **Page** - Marks content as a static page
- **Featured** - Highlights post on homepage
- **Draft** - Hides content from public view
- **Category tags** (e.g., `News`, `Events`, `History`) - Organize posts by topic

### Custom Fields

Blog posts support these custom fields:

- **author** - Author name (displays in post metadata)
- **date** - Date in YYYYMMDD format (used for sorting and display)
- **excerpt** - Brief summary (shown on homepage and archive pages)

## File Structure

```
plugins/collaborative-blog/
├── plugin.info                    # Plugin metadata
└── tiddlers/
    ├── styles.tid                 # Main stylesheet
    ├── navigation.tid             # Left sidebar navigation
    ├── admin-panel.tid            # Admin interface
    ├── homepage.tid               # Homepage template
    ├── viewtemplate-post.tid      # Blog post layout
    ├── viewtemplate-page.tid      # Static page layout
    ├── all-posts.tid              # Post archive page
    ├── categories.tid             # Category browser
    ├── about.tid                  # Example About page
    ├── contact.tid                # Example Contact page
    ├── post1.tid                  # Example blog post (featured)
    ├── post2.tid                  # Example blog post
    ├── post3.tid                  # Example blog post
    ├── post4.tid                  # Example blog post
    ├── site-title.tid             # Site title configuration
    ├── site-subtitle.tid          # Site subtitle configuration
    └── default-tiddlers.tid       # Default page on load
```

## Tips and Best Practices

1. **Use excerpts** - Always add an excerpt field to posts for better homepage display
2. **Consistent dates** - Use YYYYMMDD format for dates (e.g., `20251108`)
3. **Tag consistently** - Establish category tags early and use them consistently
4. **One featured post** - Only feature one post at a time for best visual impact
5. **Save regularly** - Click the Save button in the admin panel frequently
6. **Backup your wiki** - Regularly download a copy of your HTML file

## Customization Ideas

- Add a search box to the sidebar
- Create author profile pages
- Add social media links
- Implement a newsletter signup form
- Add image galleries for posts
- Create custom post templates for different content types

## Troubleshooting

**Posts not showing on homepage:**
- Check that the post has the `Post` tag
- Verify the post doesn't have the `Draft` tag
- Ensure the post has a `date` field in YYYYMMDD format

**Navigation links not working:**
- Make sure target pages exist with exact title matches
- Check capitalization (TiddlyWiki is case-sensitive)

**Styles not applying:**
- Clear your browser cache
- Check that `styles.tid` has the `$:/tags/Stylesheet` tag

**Admin panel not appearing:**
- Click the Admin link in the sidebar
- Check that JavaScript is enabled in your browser

## Support

For questions, issues, or suggestions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/BenSweaterVest/TiddlySite/issues
- TiddlyWiki Community: https://talk.tiddlywiki.org/

## License

This plugin is released under the same license as TiddlyWiki (BSD 3-Clause).

## Credits

Built with [TiddlyWiki](https://tiddlywiki.com/) by Jeremy Ruston and the TiddlyWiki community.

---

**Version**: 1.0.0
**Author**: BenSweaterVest
**Last Updated**: November 2025

Commit message:

Update installation documentation with clarified methods
- Clarified difference between .json and .tid plugin files
- Method 1: Complete package with examples (collaborative-blog-plugin.json)
- Method 2: Plugin only for production (collaborative-blog-plugin.tid)
- Method 3: Node.js installation
- Emphasized .tid file as recommended single-file plugin format

README.md, after:

# TiddlyWiki Collaborative Blog Plugin

A WordPress-style collaborative blog plugin for TiddlyWiki, designed to create a clean, professional website with a non-wiki feel. Perfect for historical societies, nonprofits, and small organizations.

## Features

- **Clean, blog-style interface** - Hides typical wiki elements (edit buttons, sidebar) for a professional look
- **Multiple authors** - Built-in support for author attribution on posts
- **Left sidebar navigation** - Fixed navigation menu with customizable links
- **Featured posts** - Highlight important content on the homepage
- **Categories/tags** - Organize content by topic
- **Post archive** - Automatic table of contents for all posts
- **Static pages** - Create About, Contact, and other non-blog pages
- **Responsive design** - Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Discrete admin panel** - Hidden "Admin" link reveals editing controls
- **Historical society aesthetic** - Professional, trustworthy design with serif fonts

## Installation

You have three easy options to install this plugin:

### Method 1: Drag and Drop - Complete Package (Recommended for Testing)

**Install everything at once - plugin + example content:**

1. Open your TiddlyWiki file in your browser (e.g., `empty.html`)
2. Download **`collaborative-blog-plugin.json`** from this repository
3. Drag and drop the JSON file onto your TiddlyWiki page
4. Click the "Import" button to import all tiddlers (plugin + 4 example posts + example pages)
5. Click "Admin" in the sidebar, then "Save Changes"
6. Refresh the page to see your new blog with example content!

### Method 2: Drag and Drop - Plugin Only (Recommended for Production)

**Install just the plugin, start with a clean slate:**

1. Open your TiddlyWiki file in your browser (e.g., `empty.html`)
2. Download **`collaborative-blog-plugin.tid`** from this repository
3. Drag and drop the `.tid` file onto your TiddlyWiki page
4. Click the "Import" button
5. Save and refresh
6. Click "Admin" to start creating your own posts!

*Optional:* To add example content later, drag the individual `.tid` files from `plugins/collaborative-blog/tiddlers/` onto your wiki.

### Method 3: Use Node.js (Advanced)

If you're running TiddlyWiki on Node.js:

1. Copy the `plugins/collaborative-blog/` directory to your wiki's `plugins/` folder
2. Add the plugin to your `tiddlywiki.info` file:
   ```json
   {
     "plugins": [
       "collaborative-blog"
     ]
   }
   ```
3. Restart your TiddlyWiki server

## Usage

### Creating Blog Posts

1. Click the **Admin** link in the left sidebar
2. Click **New Post** in the admin panel
3. Add the following fields to your tiddler:
   - **Title**: Your post title
   - **Tags**: `Post` (required), plus any category tags (e.g., `News`, `Events`, `History`)
   - **Author**: Author name (e.g., `Sarah Johnson`)
   - **Date**: Date in YYYYMMDD format (e.g., `20251108`)
   - **Excerpt**: Brief summary (optional but recommended)
4. Write your content using TiddlyWiki markup
5. Save the tiddler

### Creating Featured Posts

To feature a post on the homepage:

1. Edit the post
2. Add `Featured` to the tags field (e.g., `Post Featured News`)
3. Save the tiddler

**Note**: Only the most recent featured post will display in the featured section.

### Creating Static Pages

1. Click **New Page** in the admin panel
2. Add the following fields:
   - **Title**: Page name (e.g., `About`, `Contact`)
   - **Tags**: `Page` (required)
3. Write your content
4. Save the tiddler
5. The page will automatically appear in the navigation (edit `navigation.tid` to customize menu links)

### Managing Draft Posts

To save a post as a draft (not visible on the site):

1. Create or edit a post
2. Add `Draft` to the tags field
3. Save the tiddler

### Customizing the Site

#### Change Site Title and Subtitle

Edit these tiddlers:
- `$:/SiteTitle` - Main site title
- `$:/SiteSubtitle` - Tagline/subtitle

#### Customize Navigation Menu

Edit `$:/plugins/collaborative-blog/Navigation` to change menu links.

#### Modify Color Scheme

Edit `$:/plugins/collaborative-blog/styles` to customize colors, fonts, and layout.

#### Change Homepage Layout

Edit the `Home` tiddler to modify which posts appear and how they're displayed.

## Content Organization

### Tags

The plugin uses tags to organize content:

- **Post** - Marks content as a blog post
- **Page** - Marks content as a static page
- **Featured** - Highlights post on homepage
- **Draft** - Hides content from public view
- **Category tags** (e.g., `News`, `Events`, `History`) - Organize posts by topic

### Custom Fields

Blog posts support these custom fields:

- **author** - Author name (displays in post metadata)
- **date** - Date in YYYYMMDD format (used for sorting and display)
- **excerpt** - Brief summary (shown on homepage and archive pages)

## File Structure

```
plugins/collaborative-blog/
├── plugin.info                    # Plugin metadata
└── tiddlers/
    ├── styles.tid                 # Main stylesheet
    ├── navigation.tid             # Left sidebar navigation
    ├── admin-panel.tid            # Admin interface
    ├── homepage.tid               # Homepage template
    ├── viewtemplate-post.tid      # Blog post layout
    ├── viewtemplate-page.tid      # Static page layout
    ├── all-posts.tid              # Post archive page
    ├── categories.tid             # Category browser
    ├── about.tid                  # Example About page
    ├── contact.tid                # Example Contact page
    ├── post1.tid                  # Example blog post (featured)
    ├── post2.tid                  # Example blog post
    ├── post3.tid                  # Example blog post
    ├── post4.tid                  # Example blog post
    ├── site-title.tid             # Site title configuration
    ├── site-subtitle.tid          # Site subtitle configuration
    └── default-tiddlers.tid       # Default page on load
```

## Tips and Best Practices

1. **Use excerpts** - Always add an excerpt field to posts for better homepage display
2. **Consistent dates** - Use YYYYMMDD format for dates (e.g., `20251108`)
3. **Tag consistently** - Establish category tags early and use them consistently
4. **One featured post** - Only feature one post at a time for best visual impact
5. **Save regularly** - Click the Save button in the admin panel frequently
6. **Backup your wiki** - Regularly download a copy of your HTML file

## Customization Ideas

- Add a search box to the sidebar
- Create author profile pages
- Add social media links
- Implement a newsletter signup form
- Add image galleries for posts
- Create custom post templates for different content types

## Troubleshooting

**Posts not showing on homepage:**
- Check that the post has the `Post` tag
- Verify the post doesn't have the `Draft` tag
- Ensure the post has a `date` field in YYYYMMDD format

**Navigation links not working:**
- Make sure target pages exist with exact title matches
- Check capitalization (TiddlyWiki is case-sensitive)

**Styles not applying:**
- Clear your browser cache
- Check that `styles.tid` has the `$:/tags/Stylesheet` tag

**Admin panel not appearing:**
- Click the Admin link in the sidebar
- Check that JavaScript is enabled in your browser

## Support

For questions, issues, or suggestions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/BenSweaterVest/TiddlySite/issues
- TiddlyWiki Community: https://talk.tiddlywiki.org/

## License

This plugin is released under the same license as TiddlyWiki (BSD 3-Clause).

## Credits

Built with [TiddlyWiki](https://tiddlywiki.com/) by Jeremy Ruston and the TiddlyWiki community.

---

**Version**: 1.0.0
**Author**: BenSweaterVest
**Last Updated**: November 2025
